#### TECHNICAL ANSWERS FOR REAL WORLD PROBLEMS (TARP) CSE1901 J COMPONENT PROJECT

# SMART-CAR-PARKING-SYSTEM
## A real-time parking space monitoring and guiding system

### Team Members
#### Shivam Baranwal 19BCE1350
#### Arya Adarsh 19BCE1556
# Introduction
Car parking is a major problem in urban areas in both developed and developing countries. With the rapid increase in car ownership, many cities do not have parking spaces. This imbalance is due in part to the failure of land usage planning and the poor calculation of area requirements during the first planning phase. Lack of parking, high parking costs, and traffic congestion due to tourists looking for parking are just a few examples of the problems of everyday parking. Concurrent parking is often the driver's worst nightmare because, it not only requires driver skills but also increases the risk of other drivers hitting their parked car.  
# Problem Statement
Private car parking was introduced to address the above parking problems, which is why we are developing an improved car parking system that allows the car to park itself. Due to the lack of proper planning and maintenance of parking spaces, people are often forced to park their vehicle on the road resulting in heavy congestion as well as road blockage. 
Even if the parking slots are available, unfortunate accidents are caused by the huge number of moving vehicles in disorganized parking area. Also, valuable time are wasted in inconvenient and inefficient parking lots. Adding to this, a lot of fuel gets consumed while idling driving around parking lots, leading to increased CO2 emissions.<br />
Our main aim is to develop a system which can ease out the effect that are needed in parking areas in urban environment by finding a proper slot and allowing it to the specific user for the purpose of parking and removing the needless task for roaming around searching for the same.
# Proposed Solution
The project aims at providing a confusion free and easy parking solution. Our proposed solution can help the drivers of the cars to park their vehicles with minimum wastage of time with accurate information of the availability of the space to park. <br />
Our automated parking provides the user-friendly environment to park a vehicle in a safe place because only an authorized person can park their vehicle. As congestion on a road reduces, it will automatically reduce pollution generated by vehicle in traffic.<br />
It also eliminates unnecessary travelling of vehicles across the filled parking slots in a city.
The main aim of this project is to provide an easy and perplexity free parking solution. Our proposed solution can help the drivers of the cars to park their vehicles with minimum wastage of time with accurate information of the availability of the space to park. It also eliminates unnecessary travelling of vehicles across the filled parking slots in a city.<br />
Our automated parking system provides a user-friendly environment to park a vehicle in a safe place where only an authorized person can park their vehicle. While the congestion on a road reduces, it will automatically reduce pollution generated by vehicle in traffic.<br />
In this Smart Parking System, we will be using an Ultrasonic sensor to detect the entry and exit of the vehicle and an ultra-sonic range receiver for parking distance. Based on the ultrasonic sensor detection, the LCD will display the number of slots occupied or unoccupied by the vehicle and various other system information. So, any user can find the parking slot available for them without any trouble. 
# Uniqueness of our Solution
Majority of the public parking operates without any computerized system. They usually require vehicle owners to walk around and manually check the occupancy of the individual slots. Even the current smart parking systems, simply display the parking information acquired from installed sensor networks.<br />
However, these systems cannot guide and direct the drivers to their desired parking destinations or slots which is available for them. Even sometimes they can make the situation worse, they are not smart enough. For example, when the number of vacant slots in an area is restricted, more drivers, who get the parking information, are heading for these slots. It will cause severe congestion. It is, therefore, strongly required to provide an effective strategy to address the concerns.
Our solution effectively eliminates all these problems.<br />
This system improves the performance by decreasing the empty space in a parking area, and huge number of drivers who fail to find a parking space. It helps in reducing the cost of fuel which is wasted in unnecessary travelling of vehicles to find a parking lot and eventually reducing air pollution. 
It will provide instantaneous information regarding the slots which are available for parking in a particular parking area.<br />
The average waiting time of the users to find a park lot for parking their vehicles will effectively reduce in our system. An optimal solution will be provided by our proposed system, where most of the vehicles can find a free parking space successfully and minimize the time consumed to find vacant parking lot. This smart parking system provides better performance, low cost and efficient large scale parking system.
# Components 
1. Arduino UNO Board
2. Ultrasonic Sensors and Range Detectors
3. IR Sensors
4. 16x2 LCD Display
5. Servo Motor
6. Connecting Wires
7. LEDs
# Demo Video Link:
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AYA9Njzf1nPKt7t1xHdXXqKVzJjqbhwG/view?usp=sharing
